All righty. We're half an hour away from
the open in Hong Kong. You're watching
the China Show and I'm Mabel Drooers
with David and Glaze.
>> Good Monday morning to all of you. Our
top stories today, stocks across the
Japanese markets surging. While the yen
is under pressure after Sai Takahuchi is
elected leader of the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party. She is a supporter of
course of easy fiscal and monetary
policy. Now poised to become Japan's
first female prime minister as the LDP
bets on a swing to the right to win back
voters.
>> Also ahead, a Bloomberg exclusive.
Beijing is pushing the Trump
administration to lift national security
curves on Chinese deals dangling the
prospect of a massive investment
package. Plus, a closer look at China's
chipmaking ecosystem as the AI frenzy
continues to fuel a rally in tech
stocks.
[Music]
Good Monday morning. Thank you for
joining us today. It somewhat matters a
lot less that you don't have trading
today in Taiwan, Korea, and mainland
China because Japanese stocks are front
and center. And as you can see why on
your screens, a pop of 4% on the NIK225,
which should put us on track for the
best day since we'll unpack the market
implications, the implications on rate
policy, the implications on the economy
and geopolitics in a moment there out of
our team in Tokyo. But as you can see,
it's a strong uh it's a strong equity
market story. It's not really the best
as far as the Japanese perhaps yields
are concerned. We can talk about in a
moment there. Uh dollar yen 150. Who
would have thought? In fact, when you
look at Euroyen, that's already at a
record high as far as that specific
cross is concerned. Uh 40-year yields up
14 basis points today. This rethinking
around what this means or the timing at
least, flip the page, please around DOJ
rate hikes is playing out across the
banks. As you can see that repricing
there given of course with be uh found
out over the weekend. Uh elsewhere
though we're looking at likely uh some
pressure coming through as well when you
look at Chinese markets. The contract in
Singapore is coming online. S&P futures
are better. Singapore is also coming
online. F1 weekend. Congratulations of
course to those who enjoyed it. We had a
T1 though here in Hong Kong. So uh no T3
actually better than you. Yeah there we
go.
>> Sorry I'm short changing us here in Hong
Kong. uh Euro on your screens. There all
there had have been also some
developments as far as French politics
is concerned. Uh finance minister for
one a gap lower in the euro a gap higher
in dollar yen really puts a dollar on
stronger footing today. Uh gold coming
up on your screens 4,000 very much in
play that's coming on your screens and
of course Brent as you can see also out
of OPIC plus and Bitcoin stellar weekend
was above 125. It's a little bit below
that as you can see. So that goes into
tech, that goes into cryptoreated se
sectors we're tracking today as we go
into this Hong Kong open this Monday.
>> Yeah. And then really there's going to
be the key uh sectors to be watching as
well. You've got crypto, you've got oil
link stocks. Uh you've got a tech is
still a big story for us as well because
we had a bit of a tear down or a tear
down into Huawei's Ascend chip. That's
the AI chip series over on Friday and it
did show there's still some components
in there from TSMC, Samsung, SKH Highix
as well. So that's sort of a key sector
to be tracking. Hong Kong stock rally, I
mean that's Yes. Beyond Japan today,
still tracking that because we're coming
off the best week since March of I
believe. Yes. And mainland trading as
you said still is shut as we continue to
track any data that we get from golden
week that holiday period. SEM was
reporting that it's been a really strong
start and actually Alibaba as well had
some data out for AAP which is their
travel platform tool and that showed 360
million daily active users users rather
on October one. That's the highest
they've ever seen for that tool as well.
So it is just sort of some of the
incremental data we're starting to get.
>> Yeah, that's interesting because you
only tend to use the map when you're not
familiar with a place which I guess is
indicative of tourist flow.
>> Yes.
>> Uh into certain places. We'll talk about
that in a moment. Yes, I mean the fact
that mail and markets are shuts, you
don't have a lot of volumes coming
through the stock connect today. To our
top story, Japan and we show showed you
why just there. Pro stimulus
conservative Saiaka is now poised to
become Japan's first female prime
minister after winning the leadership of
the ruling LDP. Let's bring in our team
out of Tokyo Sherry on our co-anchor for
Asia Trade in the studio and also with
her is our Japan equities reporter Alice
French. Sher, let's start with you.
quite a big one as markets are repricing
uh their expectations there. Tell us
what the major implication of this would
be.
>> Yeah, we're talking about Sai Takayichi,
right? I mean, you said it. She's pro-
stimulus. We know that she's a
nationalist as well. She's also a fan of
Margaret Thatcher and a known heavy
metal music lover and also a drummer. Uh
she is expected to become, as you said,
the first female prime minister of Japan
when we have a parliamentary vote later
this month. Really showing that the
Liberal Democratic Party is betting on
this swing back to the right to attract
young voters. She had really widespread
grassroots support which potentially
convinced LDP lawmakers that she can
really bring the party together. But
it's all about abonomics, right? And
what this means for the markets. She has
been a fan of easy money policy. uh
hawkish when it comes to diplomacy. Uh
she has criticized the Bank of Japan
lifting rates. Uh in the previous
campaign last year, she in fact called
lifting rates uh being stupid, although
she did dial back her tone on the BOJ
during this campaign. But she has talked
about the potential of needing extra
bond issuance, which is why you can
already see the market implications when
it comes to how JGBs are reacting today.
She's talked about raising the tax-free
income allowance. Uh really promising
those cash handouts and tax rebates to
help Japanese households and when it
comes to really making the new cabinet
of course will be key and what sort of
compromise she needs to make with other
opposition parties given that the ruling
LDP has of course lost the majorities in
both chambers of uh the legislature here
in Japan. Um that's why potentially some
analysts are saying that these moves
that we're seeing on the markets today
could be short-lived.
Sher, what about the the line as well
that that Takiichi needs to walk not
just with China but also with the US and
you could say perhaps when it comes to
negotiations or discussions with both of
those different countries and
governments, Japan doesn't necessarily
hold all the cards. But you do have that
national question as well. So let's just
hear what Taki said about her
relationships and and what we can expect
as well with the Trump administration.
>> If we face something against national
interests, I believe it's important to
clearly express our position within the
framework of the Japan and US agreement.
At this point, I have no intention of
overturning any agreement made so far.
So, how is is Takage going to be able to
not look weak in the eyes of of voters?
But at the same time, it's going to be
difficult to deal with Trump's demands.
>> Yeah. Especially in the month that
President Trump is now, according to
reports, expected to come to Japan and
potentially hold a meeting with Sonia
Takahayi. Right. and she's mentioned
during her campaign that she would be
open to renegotiating the free trade
agreement, although she's also walked
back those comments, but we know that
there could be tensions around the 550
billion uh dollar investment fund into
the US. Uh we have seen, of course,
Takahuchi also talk about defense
spending. She's a hardline conservative.
Uh that could actually prove appealing
to President Trump who wants Asian
countries to increase defense spending.
But it's a heavy agenda on for Takayichi
because we do have the East Asia summit
in Malaysia. We have the Apex summit in
South Korea later in the month as well.
And we know that she has a reputation as
a China hawk which will alarm Beijing.
Uh she has called to deepen ties with
Taipei as well which will not really
play well with China. She has talked
about uh the Yasuni shrine. She said
that she'll make appropriate decisions
over praying at the controversial shrine
that also honors war criminals that is
seen as controversial not only in China
but also in South Korea. So, uh we are
watching those bilateral ties here
across Asia as well. Sai Takayichi is
now expected to become the first female
prime minister of Japan when the
parliamentary vote happens later this
month.
>> Alice, can I bring you in? Sherry
mentioned one sector defense. We're
looking at I'm looking at my board here.
Look at machinery, look at real estate,
construction. How do we now look at
sector winners benefiting from this win?
Uh Alice,
>> morning. Yeah, I mean as you say, we're
already seeing defense one of the
biggest winners today. Some defense
names up over 15% this morning, seeing
some of their biggest gains since April.
That kind of posttariff rebound that we
saw. Um, as Sher mentioned, of course,
Takichi has spoken a lot about the fact
that she wants to boost defense
spending. She also talks about this kind
of strategic investment, right? So, she
wants Japan to sort of regain its glory
in various key industries, which of
course includes things like chips, um,
tech, AI, and so we're also seeing tech
stocks pretty strong this morning.
Construction and infrastructure, as you
mentioned, as well, are set to benefit
from more government spending. real
estate too, which which could be a a
beneficiary if you know if Tagichi does
put some pressure on the BOJ to kind of
scale back those rate hikes. On the
other side, of course, we're seeing
banks weaker today. Um there are some
expectations that, you know, perhaps a
rate hike is is going to look less
likely this month now that we have
Takayichi who is slightly more doubbish
when it comes to monetary policy sort of
at the helm of the LDP. So, it'll be
interesting to see how much of a sort of
knee-jerk higher it is today for for
those beneficial industries and and
whether the momentum can continue under
her leadership.
>> Yeah. So, just talk us then about the
the trajectory. I mean, where do you see
it then going over the next week or two
as we try and decipher what the policies
are likely to be and how much this is
going to be possibly a shift back to
abonomics?
>> I mean, it's difficult to predict at
this stage. But I think at the moment,
particularly from the market
perspective, people will be looking in
her rhetoric for any signs that she's
trying to sort of upset the status quo.
Okay? If if she sort of makes any
comments related to monetary policy,
anything related to the BOJ,
particularly as we're just a few weeks
away from that rate hike decision, that
will obviously, you know, markets will
be very sensitive to that. Um, I I will
say though, you know, we know that the
LDP is in a minority houses, and I think
it will be quite difficult for her to
completely shake things up. uh most
investors seem to be expecting that she
will be slightly more moderate going
forward than she was in her last
leadership campaign and you know if that
turns out to be the case then the the
downside for banks may be sort of
short-lived um but but as Sher mentioned
of course we have Trump in town in in
just a few weeks time and so there will
be sort of some nerves I think around
those kind of US Japan relations and and
seeing sort of which direction Takahi
decides to take them in but if she is
able to sort of you know have a good
rapport with Trump and and potentially
strength
those relationships and that could be
good for things like ship building, for
things like tech, for things like
defense. So, I think it seems like
there's more sort of positive
expectation than worries at least at
this stage, but you know, only time will
tell.
>> Yeah, it'll be interesting to see as
well whether foreign investors, we know
they're big buyers, are they going to
continue to have that appetite? But that
was our Asia trade co-anchor Sheranne
and also our Japan equities reporter
Alice French in Tokyo for us. And we are
going to continue the discussion on
what's in store for Japan under Takiichi
with Sir Cruz University. That
conversation is coming up in the next
hour.
>> Yeah. But ahead of that, Mayback Asset
Management. So the rates market seems to
be also giving out its initial prognosis
of what took place in Japan over the
weekend. We'll talk about that, the lack
of data as far as the Fed conversation
goes and really fixed income with Rush
Name joining us in a couple of minutes
out of Mayback counting down to the open
of trade here in Hong Kong. And we're
coming off uh bit of weather. Not too
bad though. Uh futures are pointing to
the downside. 17 minutes to the opening
bell.
[Music]
You're watching the China show this
morning, but really all the action is
happening in Tokyo because we've had
markets coming online after the uh
surprise uh election of Takayichi to the
leadership of the LDP. So, you're seeing
really a very strong reaction here
across the board. I mean, stocks are
surging and it's kind of playing out as
you might have expected in in bond
yields, but also the Japanese yen.
They're very close to that 150 mark.
>> Yeah, 150 on that. Euro yen's already at
a record high. Uh, you know, just a few
days ago, markets were pricing in a a
nearly 70% probability that the BOJ
would hike on the 30th this month.
That's gone down to 20% as we speak. So
certainly that's being pushed back. What
does it mean for broader rates markets?
Uh, we're joined out of Singapore Raj
Neta, co-head of regional fixed income
at May Bank Asset Management. Good
morning. Thank you for joining us. Just
where does your head go looking at the
elections on the weekend and this
repricing we're now suddenly seeing in
the in the FX and rates markets, Rajna?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So actually I think
the expectation of Takivin was maybe
about 40 50%. But everybody knew that if
she comes yen will weaken and the rates
will go higher. But I think over the
recent conversations we have noticed
that short-term yes she wants to boost
fiscal because she believes that uh it
will improve the GDP growth but long
term I think still she worries about
debt to GDP ratio. So I feel yeah
shortterm you see a weaker maybe higher
rates in Japan. I think the spill over
to the other countries especially Asian
country in terms of rates will be
limited. Yes, in terms of currencies I
expect more spill over because uh at at
some point actually I was expecting I
needed the dollar to strengthen this
month. So this is one of the push where
the dollar will strengthen but long-term
still expect the dollar to weaken
especially across Asian currencies and
euro Aussie remn because China is still
out for holiday so we'll have to wait
and watch what kind of fixing China will
do when they come out. uh in terms of
rates markets actually US treasury we
have seen some sell off so I do expect
especally the longer the 30-year in the
US to sell off maybe 10 15 basis point
but around 4.9 I think we would I would
like to go long duration because this is
what we were hoping for that there may
be a correction in the 10 and 30 US
treasuries but come to Asian rates I
don't expect too much because they're
very domestically oriented so I don't
think so that the JGB market will impact
lot of Asian market in terms of rate but
in terms of currencies Definitely.
>> Yeah. So, how long then if you're saying
you expect the the the the USD to to to
move over the next few days, you're
seeing the the Japanese yen weakness
then sort of being a short-term
move.
>> Yes. So, I do believe okay for yen
because remember Trump's administration
also wants actually a weaker dollar. So,
given that we are talking about even
they're trying to work out a currency
deal with Korea. So we'll have to wait
and watch and see what kind because I'm
sure they're not going to like such
weaken or week in one. So I think the
implications are there also when
actually the Apex summit comes by maybe
end of October. So I do believe that
yeah shortterm I do see a spike and even
in Asian currencies but medium-term
still expect the dollar to weaken.
Rajna, I'm speaking of I I'd like to
borrow something you just said right
now. Working out markets are trying to
work out which of the Fed two Fed
mandates are more actionable because we
obviously have a sort of a gap in terms
a vacuum in terms of the the economic
data given the shutdown.
Is the do you think the assumption still
would be a labor market will force the
Fed to cut interest rates or is that
also up for question at this point do
you think? No, I think they will
definitely because there there's not
going to be data at least CPI data also
may not be out. So I think uh definitely
25 basis point is expected they will
because they will look at the ADP report
because they may not have the data
before that. So the given that ADP
report was weak I do expect them to cut
25 basis point in October and then going
forward I still expect one more cut but
we'll have to wait and see for the data
and especially how long this the
shutdown lasts is very very important
factor. the longer it lags, I think
there'll be more impact in terms of the
US economy in terms of the growth
slowdown.
>> Yeah. So then if there's higher funding
needs going into to next year as well,
what does that tell you about the
direction of treasuries and and any
possible worries about a selloff next
year?
>> Yes, absolutely. Because I think this
year given the slowdown and what is
happening in terms of administration
policy, I expect actually the 10-year
Treasury maybe to drop below 4%. But
next year is interesting because I think
that the the deficit is going to be
higher and the tariff revenues we are
still not sure because the the Supreme
Court has to give the decision by end of
the year and the tariffs are clawed back
and then that the shortfall is going to
be big enough next year. So to me I
think I'm just a little worried about
next year in terms of US Treasury uh and
the rate cuts also and inflation coming
back. So I feel next year you may see
Treasury going back again above 4% maybe
to 4.5 for 10 years. as of no still
believe for this year it's okay it's a
good play but for next year we have to
watch and see but I expect the next year
the treasury should be in a higher range
maybe four to 4.6 six rather than below
4%. At least for first half.
C
>> can I ask you too about I know you're
you primarily look at fixed income. I'm
just going to mention what's been
happening in the equity market because I
want to get a sense of what the appetite
is for fixed income given this global e
equity bull market and I wonder whether
that's affected inflows into fixed
income strategies like income for
example. How is that I guess in many
ways showing up in your world Rajna?
>> Absolutely. You are totally right. We
have seen actually we have not seen much
inflows in the fixed income market
honestly because everybody wants like
higher dividend yield higher everything.
I've seen this over the last two three
years it's like everybody wants to just
make 10% 15%. So we have not seen much
inflows though Asian credits have done
very very well actually most of the
inflows are going into equity markets or
balanced fund rather than fixed income.
So the only way we are getting close uh
uh in the fixed income is through
balanced one where there have equity and
fixed income and gold. So definitely you
are absolutely right and I'm hoping I
was always hoping that this year will be
a fixed income year and it looks like
again it's an equity year. So hopefully
we'll have to wait and watch unless
there's a big slowdown coming next year
then we'll have to see but absolutely
right that we've not seen much flows.
The only way the flows are coming is
through a lot of balance funds.
>> Are you hoping for a bare market in
equities? I'm kidding. Raja, a question
for you then. You know, people are are
people are searching for in to your
point, right? We're looking at so what
is what what is available right now in
your space in terms of in if I'm looking
at income, fixed income, not too much as
far as risk up the risk spectrum is
concerned. What's the what's what's the
all-in yield at the moment?
>> So all in actually technically you can
depending on where you're investing
because you can buy some local currency,
you can get currency out. So all in
roughly about 5.5 to 6%. So it's still
not bad in US dollar terms. Correct. So
you still get 5.5 to 6% roughly or in ES
and if you you expect some capital gain
especially if you look at the GCC market
you're getting slightly higher premium
when you are buying say investing great
bonds and even in like I think if the
equity market are strong enough maybe
you can buy a mixture of high and IG
portfolio so your yield can still you
can get around at least 6.5%. So I think
still not bad but I think people are
looking for 10 11%.
Raja, thanks so much for joining us this
morning. That was Raja Meta, their
co-head regional fixed income May Bank
Asset Management. And just taking a
quick look at Hong Kong premarket. We're
off around half a percent this morning.
But remember, of course, coming off the
best week since March of this year. We
did actually see the Golden Dragon index
as well off 1.5% on Friday. So, sort of
a bit of a direction that we took from
Wall Street perhaps. We'll have plenty
more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
>> Yeah, it's uh it's Monday. There's a
holiday tomorrow as well. So, we're
sandwiched between what normally Well,
nothing's happening. Japan story of
course was the was the weekend big thing
crypto but then we have a holiday as I
mentioned tomorrow so that's just me my
way of saying there's no nothing
happening and that shouldn't be
surprising at this point
>> I feel like you could have just said
blleh
>> well I could have the thing is we have
we had we had time to burn through so
>> time to kill
>> right we can take a look at maybe what
is moving in the session because uh chip
stocks of course one to watch watch this
morning and also some of the analyst
actions but CL this would be a good one
to track because it's just been cut to
neutral at JP Morgan. So the price
target there 600 of course you're still
below that point. Uh battery space still
at Tiani Lithium H shares also cut to
hold. Zjun gold uh just after its uh big
IPO of course or listing but has been
rated a strong buy at China merchants.
You can see they're up 2% so far in Hong
Kong. But let's also take a look at some
of those movers in the session. Possibly
what we'll be tracking uh Goldman Sachs
has hiked their price target. So no more
analyst actions but for SMIC Huah Hong
as well. Those two are sort of diverging
here. We did have another story about uh
Huawei using TSMC, Samsung and SKH
components in their top AI chips. David
mentioned some of those sectors we're
tracking. So, of course, it's crypto,
it's it's gold, it's this these sort of
havens, I guess you can say, or what's
acting like a haven and oil, of course,
because we had uh OPEC plus agreeing to
a more modest production hike than was
perhaps expected. But again, not really
seeing a key theme developing so far out
of those movers or possible movers.
Final check on Japan assets because
that's really where the story is today.
seeing huge moves in the nick. The
topics bank stocks expectedly under
pressure
[Music]
service reminder. Um, I need more
coffee. Did you sleep well? I didn't
sleep well.
>> I did not sleep well.
>> No, I think I think I think it's the
weather. I think it's it's everything.
But yeah, who who do you blame?
>> Myself.
>> What are we blaming? Okay.
>> I don't have anywhere to go except
myself.
>> Monday's always difficult.
>> It is always tough, especially when
you're coming off the weekend. You've
your body clocks just gone into a
different mode and then suddenly Monday
morning, it's just the alarm's going
off. But anyway, okay, we've made it to
the Hong Kong Open today.
>> Here we are. And and at the start of the
day, look, we can see we're under
pressure so far. It sort of tracks what
we had on on Friday. The golden dragon
index was down 1.5%.
Tech, you can see already is sort of
bearing the brunt of this. I'm just
taking a name look at names like Alibaba
for instance, uh JD that are really
leading the decline so far in the
session. Also seeing some of those auto
stocks off like Lee Auto for instance,
BYD again some of the big drags so far.
Actually, Tencent is still holding up.
You can see uh nearly 1% so far, but
overall I mean the sentiment for the day
is is sort of a lack of direction as
Dave was saying. We're sandwiched
between holidays here because we've got
that public holiday tomorrow. Uh China
of course still on its golden week
holiday. We are getting some initial
data out though and it tells us travel
does seem to be very much in vogue and
we're seeing some really good travel
numbers so far. AAP, right? AAP is is
the Alibaba tool actually even though
that stock's lower today but they did
report their largest number of daily
active users on October 1.
>> AAP is is sort of sort of their travel
platform that they've really been
reworking to to integrate more AI
features. It's also a big face off
against names like BU for instance. But
some of the movers in the session so far
we're tracking uh really in the battery
space but CL TI as well lithium this is
a story around analyst downgrade. So JP
Morgan for instance has cut their CL
shares to neutral. Their price target
still though $600 Hong Kong dollars. So
you're sitting around that point right
now. Tiani also cut down to $49. So very
much in line. And Zun Gold is is one of
the big standouts actually so far in the
session. But they've been rated a strong
buy at China merchants and we're coming
off of course what was the listing for
the company in Hong Kong. Oil stocks as
well to note because we've seen oil
actually moving a little bit higher in
the session so far and that's the story
around OPEC plus. So, they did agree to
a production hike, but importantly, it
was a lot more modest than than what had
been expected by some. It's a huge
trade-off. They're sort of trying to
balance prices, but they also want to
balance output and and they're seeing
you essentially um other drillers
outside the alliance that are continuing
to increase their output and they're
trying as well to balance off against
that. But you are seeing again sort of
mixed moves so far and fairly flat. But
maybe traders uh maybe traders are off
today actually. So maybe some thin
liquidity.
>> Yeah. Well, we
>> public holiday tomorrow, you know, you
can take it today as well.
>> Why not, right? And that's that's a long
weekend for you and you get to escape
what had really been a lot of crowds
here in Hong Kong. Anyway, I can get to
my rant a bit later on. The brand is
trading one and a half to the upside. I
think Belle was just pointing out of
course when it comes to gold, we're near
4,000 level as far as that uh specific
play is concerned. Okay, we alluded to
this next story that's coming up shortly
a few minutes ago. Me and Bell. So
Beijing is pushing uh the White House,
the Trump White House to roll back some
of these national security restrictions
on Chinese deals in the US, dangling
this prospect of a massive investment
package as part of a broader
should we call it a trade broader deal.
Let's bring in Minman Low, our China
correspondent to help us understand here
what this how big this investment
package is like or could be could be.
>> Yes. So according to sources, they're
saying that China had floated a $1
trillion investment package into the US.
And this is obviously China trying to
seek a similar treatment as countries
like South Korea, Japan, the EU. These
places have pledged something between
350 to 600 billion dollars in
investments in the US. But China is
looking at something far larger in terms
of scale and also seeking for lower
tariffs for imported inputs for Chinese
factories in the US. Uh and this is
obviously something that President C and
Trump will likely discuss at the
sidelines of the Apex summit in South
Korea. Uh and uh yeah, it's a it's a big
deal. It sign it's it signals an
important shift in US policy if
President Trump approves it because it
was just a few years ago when uh
Congress had set up this congressional
committee to screen Chinese investments
into the US and there's CPAs the inter
agency committee that was blocking a
number of US deals in the US but
obviously if this comes through it will
be important and beneficial for China as
well given the thin industrial profits
in China um and the deflationary
pressures there with this then Chinese
companies can go to the US to to build
and to sell in the US.
>> Yes, something China obviously wants,
but it's it would be a huge about turn
for for Trump who really rewrote the
deals for dealing with or rules rather
for dealing with China in his first
term. But another story we were first to
report on was on Friday. But Huawei, it
seems, is is I mean, we know it's very
reliant, but we're seeing what sorts of
parts and which companies as well that
it's getting different components from
for its chips.
>> Yeah. And this is interesting because
when Huawei had announced the launch of
this 910C chips, the the third
generations of third generation of their
AI chips that went into mass production
earlier this year, that was really
touted as a big breakthrough for Chinese
chip makers, especially SMIC, which is
the manufacturer for Huawei. But now
according to this tear down by Tech
Insights, uh the chips actually contain
components including high bandwidth
memory components from SKH Highix and
Samsung as well as dyes from TSMC as
well. But granted, yes, these are older
generation technology. TSMC has put a
statement saying that those dies are no
longer in production since late 2024.
But still, it shows you that Huawei has
somehow been able to stockpile a huge
number of these components either just
ahead of US rules tightening or through
third party intermediaries because there
has been cases of Chinese chip
designers, you know, buying from TSMC
and reselling to Huawei without
disclosing them. Although, of course,
when it's discovered, the the US
government then sanctioned those
companies. But still, it shows you that
a lot of Huawei's hardware is still
dependent on foreign technologies here.
>> Yeah, huge uh short gaps really when it
comes to chip equipment in in particular
for China. Uh that was our China
correspondent there, Mim Lo joining us
and subscribers can read more about the
relationship between Washington and
Beijing. Uh in this piece from our team
that's on China hawks in the US growing
uncomfortable over President Trump's
push for deals with Xi Jinping. So check
it out on the terminal or at
bloomberg.com. And Dave, uh, you're
checking tech stocks.
>> Yeah. So, I mean, we've talked at length
already about Alibaba. I think on
Friday, as we were, Bill mentioned, of
course, our change in the time zone as
we go into the weekend. I think in case
we missed it, I think we I did at least,
uh, Morgan Stanley upgraded their price
target on new ADRs. Uh, we're currently
doing this as far as markets are
concerned. Uh, but it's really been a
terrific run so far for for Chinese tech
and these big tech platforms. Let's
bring in Nicolai, managing director at
Bearing. She also manages of course the
Hong Kong China fund. Uh good morning
and nice to see you.
>> Morning.
>> Must have been a really good few weeks
for you.
>> Yeah, I mean we we are obviously seeing
a bit of a divergence you know in in in
um the strength and and the positive
sentiment in the markets. Uh we're not
quite seeing it in you know the
consumption data or the physical economy
sort of the areas there yet. Uh but
we're observing very closely. We're
we're just making sure I mean a lot of
times market does lead um and so we
we're we've got a lot of people on the
ground. We're doing a lot of trips um
for example um I think we actually think
industrial activity is actually coming
in a little bit better than expected
obviously from a very low base um but we
think that China's industrial capex is
coming in better than expected. So so
we're we're staying we're staying sort
of very hopeful in in um in expecting
some some good data coming out of China.
So then if you you're seeing that
divergence and we are seeing that
divergence between sort of the real
economy and then what we see in stocks
how much conviction do you have in in
the rally and what we've seen so far
then? Um I think obviously we're we're
very focused on the next three to five
years. And so um obviously I think we
we've seen a good normalization for very
depressed levels you know especially in
the internet names um going forward a
lot of our attention and a lot of our
work uh is really on digging deep in and
what what exactly is this return on this
AI investment? Um AI obviously is is an
important catalyst and I think a lot of
people have underestimated sort of ch a
lot of the Chinese technology
platforms's ability to capture and
benefit um from it on a long-term basis.
So from a long-term basis I think um
there's a lot of you know we I've done a
lot of meetings with companies recently.
China really is uh one of the key uh
manufacturing bases for for AI server
components right um be it you know for
Chinese companies or for global
companies the the addressal market is
very big um so so we're seeing a huge
amount of demand coming through um a lot
of aggressive capex numbers coming
through um obviously it all coincides at
a time with there's a lot of IPOs and
there's a lot of ability to fund raise
and and fund a lot of this uh growth so
as long as it translates into earnings
growth in the next 3 to 5 years where
we're we're looking for companies that
can really capture that and and whereby
you know it it still is still reasonable
valuations from a long-term perspective.
>> The the I mean as you point out markets
have rerated
and the the old school tech names have
reemerged as recipients of fund flows,
recipients of attention. I think you
mentioned capex. Alibaba came out and
upgraded their their capix alongside
that. You know, markets are trying to
now figure out. So, I think no question
that AI uh and semiconductors is is is a
real story in China. Markets are now
trying to figure out the story within
those themes. What criteria do you guys
use to sort of handpick what who the
early winners might look like?
Um I think we um you know we're really
looking at companies that that have what
what what impresses us a lot perhaps I
should say you know I' I've done factory
visits 10 years ago to to today and it's
very impressive. I mean, you know, these
these technology companies have
leapfrogged um and and and some of the
factories are the the best
state-of-the-art, highly automated,
there's barely any people in them,
extremely um sophisticated. Um, so I
think, you know, as long as they're
enabling this tech trend, we we look
very much for enablers and not the
copycat um sort of uh meto um producers
and um you know, people who could can
really capture the content value um be
you know produce half the capacity at
the right place at the right time um and
and that is underappreciated by the
market. How much do you worry about the
the risk of of tariffs or or even
sanctions being applied to some of those
companies? I mean, you you mentioned,
for instance, some of the key components
of of AI service and optical
transceivers is is one area of the
market we've been tracking because we've
seen such a huge runup. And these
companies supply to China, they also
supply to the US. Is there a concern
though that the the US obviously grows
wary of of the progress they're making
in things like factory automation and
then tries to shift away their supply
chains?
>> I mean I think this is not new news. So
a lot of companies have had a good three
years to really absorb and to plan and
to to recalibrate. Um so you know it's a
it's a global production base we're
talking about. So it's not really
they're not relying on a single
manufacturing base. Um and and in terms
of in terms of um you know we just
really find a hard the ecosystem is such
an important um element in in efficiency
and and in driving those um um lowcost
uh or sort of reasonable cost components
into into into what is becoming more and
more sophisticated and expensive. Um and
so I think you know a lot of the Asian
manufacturing bases have a very very big
role to play in supporting this growth.
>> The Can I ask you about the other part?
I mean you alluded to this at the very
start of the interview that there has
been a runup in markets. The data
underlying data has so far not
changed as quickly as as as the market
would perhaps would merit. The there's a
part of the equity market that's sort of
been left behind. things like uh you
know some of the big EV plays for
example some of the big platform names
and I wonder how you're looking at
exposure to those specific parts of of
the equity market now that you know it's
clear who the winners are but what do I
now look at as far as the value on the
table is concerned as far as the others
>> I mean I think it's really combing um
you know some of these big platforms
it's it's precisely because they're big
so there's a lot of moving parts yeah
>> um and sometimes it takes time for a lot
of these drivers to really show up. Um,
and I think, um, that's why you do tend
to have what they call lag arts as well
as first movers. And so, it's really
about going back to valuations and
seeing has the market really priced in
the changes that we're seeing. Um, a lot
of these companies perhaps they've got
cash cows that are supporting um, a
rapid change in development. It's just
that we're not seeing it on the headline
numbers yet. Um, but there's a lot of
underlying work that's been done uh, to
capture a lot of this. And so actually
we we do we do see some of these very
favorably as well.
>> Okay. Well, let's talk again next time
about that. Nicola, very nice to see
you.
>> Nicola lie there, Hong Kong and China
equities investment manager at Bearings
uh on many things. Okay. Lots more to
talk about of course in uh the next
time. Okay. Coming up uh we'll be
turning our attention to Southeast Asia,
the Philippines specifically where
equity sentiment really remains
relatively cautious given uh what's been
on going on there domestically. We will
be joined by the president and CEO of
the stock exchange. Coming through next,
this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right about 15 minutes into the cash
market session in Manila. On my right,
we are up a fourth day after three days
going into the weekend. Uh that's
certainly coming off the longest losing
streak of the year going into this time
last week. Still the market remains the
one of the worst performers here to date
across the region. Uh to just get a
sense of how we decipher noise from
signal, let's bring in out of Manila,
Ramon Monzone, president and CEO of the
Philippine Stock Exchange. Mr. Monzone,
good morning and thank you for joining
us on shows. Why don't we ask Let me
just put that question directly to you.
Um, who do we blame for this recent
underperformance? What do we blame?
>> Well, uh, I'm not in the blaming game,
but I would say what's causing the
problem in our equity market basically,
it's the, you know, political, uh,
scenarios happening here, the corruption
scandal, the investigations. So what's
happening to our market basically is
really it's a sentiment issue, a
confidence issue because the our
fundamentals are still very strong.
Earnings of uh index companies are up
you know uh
almost 17% for the first half. Uh the
SEPA law which reduced uh the stock
transaction tax from uh 60 bips to 10
bips was passed and was made effective
July. And in July we saw an increase in
our volume. I mean uh our volume
increased 30.4%
compared to the you know average daily
volume we had in 2024. We had you know
after uh a net foreign selling of about
23 uh you know.2 billion in 2024. In
July we had a positive uh net foreign
buying of about 1.6 billion pesos. uh
and of course after the corruption
scandal erupted this you know reverted
back to net foreign selling for August
and September but again I mean uh that's
what's confronting our market now but uh
I would say that you know not all is you
know gloom and doom uh there's some uh
well there's still some bright spots
that we look forward to but the most
important thing is we've got to get over
this problem on the corruption scandal.
I think the uh formation of an
independent commission for
infrastructure to investigate all these
corruptions uh was a right step forward.
But of course the you know the
investigation results must be swift,
must be credible and must you know must
be fair. When I say fair, I mean, you
know, I mean, if it hits the allies or,
you know, or, you know, senators and
congressmen,
so be it. I mean, you know, cases have
to be filed, you know, against them. Uh,
so that's one bright spot, the uh, you
know, formation of the independent
commission to investigate this
corruption scandal. uh our uh big IPO
for the year, my NIAD. Okay. Uh
has uh you know has been garnering a lot
of foreign interests. Uh there are two
anchor foreign well two multi
multilateral lenders who will you know
serve as their anchor investors which is
IFC and ADB who is still getting board
approval but they expect to invest about
$245 million to the IPO. And just uh
recently it was confirmed that you know
there are six
foreign cornerstone investors. So I hope
the results of the ICI investigation and
the Manila IPO would be the catalyst to
you know turn around what's happening in
our market.
>> But do you see further downside in in
the short to medium term if if the
corruption scandal is is still ongoing
and still continuing to spook foreign
investors?
>> Yes. uh I I think until foreign
investors see clarity in the results of
investigation
uh you know they they will continue to
price in risk in our market you know uh
but it's October now the uh uh listing
for the myat IPO is November 7 we have
one month hopefully in this one month
period something you know concrete will
happen you know in the ICI investigation
and hopefully this could you know uh be
the catalyst to you know turn around
what's happening to our market.
>> Uh yeah Mr. Monzone on it. You know, let
me ask you directly. Do you know in some
sense we've seen many of these
investigations in the past, the sense I
get from the people I talked to and the
news flow coming throughout in Manila
and I can't look at it in a vacuum,
right? I look at the recent elections
and the changes there and I, you know, I
just got to wonder whether there is some
level of change in political
accountability that's taking place
there. And do you see perhaps well,
okay, let me put it this way. Foreign
investors seem to be worried that this
might have a p pardon the pun, a
spillover effect into more of
consequence issues, you know, a rerating
of of of the ability for the country to
raise money, GDP spending, uh the credit
ratings, for example. Are foreign
investors being too pessimistic over
what's going on there, or is there
really something taking place?
Well, uh there's probably uh I might
call skepticism, you know, not cynicism
on what could, you know, what could this
uh independent commission really
achieve. But I think uh our president, I
think, knows the you know the real
score. This is something that can't be a
cosmetic uh you know approach to the
problem, right?
>> I think as you can see in the September
21 rally, I think
>> a lot of people are angry. I mean
they're really angry and you know uh so
uh you know I think uh they have to and
I think they recognize this. So I don't
think this is going to be a you know one
of those cosmetic investigations that
you know will be shortterm. I think uh
uh this will have some really you know
significant results that will hopefully
change the governance of you know our
political leaders.
the recent low of of 5,900 points. Then
do you see the market going below that
again? What what's sort of your
expectations around the levels to the
downside and the upside in the short
term?
>> I think in the short term everything
will depend on what's happening
happening politically because like I
said fundamentally you know our
inflation rate is within targets our GDP
growth rate is within targets uh the
corporate earnings are you know uh up.
So it's really really the political
events and you know like I said if the
uh the coming you know in the coming
weeks if the results of the
investigation show that it's going over
I can see the market going down some
more.
So uh you know I think it's very
important that something swift credible
and uh you know all encompassing
investigation should be and prosecution
should be you know should be done.
>> Mr. Monza, final question for you. To
your point, the fundamentals seem
unchanged, right? And the only
difference is it's just a much cheaper
market now. We're trading in single uh
singledigit multiples there. You know,
you know, as they say, do us do what
locals do. What is the sense among the
local institutional investor community
there over over market sentiment?
>> Well, I think the local institutions
are, you know, uh following the lead of
the foreign investors. We see net
foreign selling the market you know uh
in big foreign net foreign selling in
August when the corruption scandal
erupted another you know uh big net
foreign selling September so uh I think
our local institutions are just going to
be following that you know the lead of
the foreign investors they're going to
await you know something uh significant
or meaningful that you know that can
come out of these investigations
Ramon, thanks very much for joining us.
That was Ramon Monz on there, president
and CEO of the Philippine Stock Exchange
joining us from Manila. Thanks very much
for your time. Uh, now for a quick check
of markets as well as we head into the
outbreak here. But checking uh, BU, it's
actually fairly flat so far. We did see
a slight uh, gain on the Friday session
on Wall Street. That's after Morgan
Stanley hiked their ADR price target for
the company. BU really has been one of
the standout performers over the last
few weeks. It's really around a
rethinking around their AI strategy.
Also, more updates that we're getting on
their in-house chip efforts. Uh Goldman
Sachs as well, they've high hiked their
price targets rather for SMIC Hua Huang.
They're getting a boost of course that
AI ecosystem boost that you see in
China. These are the two major
foundaries and also Dave checking casino
stocks.
>> Yeah. Which perhaps did quite well going
into this uh sort of window of holidays
right now. And we are getting more data.
Not that the data is bad, nothing has
been blockbuster so far. Um and we are
seeing some money gain taken off the
table to the point you were making bill
earlier on. We're also seeing similar
dynamics across some of the big winners
of late tech. There's plenty more ahead
here on the China show. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China show this
morning. Taking a look at the hang into
the session, we are a little bit under
pressure today. It is a sort of a story
around some of the biggest
beneficiaries. We've seen of late, the
likes of Alibaba, the likes of BU that
have been rallying but seem to be taking
a little bit of a breather this morning.
And and you were making that point
earlier, Dave. trading volumes are 40%
lower than where they'd typically be on
a 20-day moving average basis, but it
also just tells you the importance of
southbound flows to this market.
>> Yeah, it's really picked up uh in terms
of the obviously the overall turnover
that's picked up over the years, it's
really been a big source of flows and
recently if you look at the on a daily
basis, you can check this out on the
stock exchange. You know, some of the
big recipients of all that money have
really been these big tech plays, right?
Right. So on a day when you know for the
lack of catalyst and you have a main
market that's closed they there will be
some temptation to take money off the
table. And of course there is also a
holiday as well tomorrow. So we're
sandwich between
>> I feel like some people might be taking
Monday off.
>> Oh no they are.
>> Yes.
Just my hunch.
>> This is you. So like okay anecdote here
as we look at the Japanese markets
right. So I went down to get some
breakfast here um and there was pretty
much nobody um that I had to
>> always a good indication.
>> Yeah. stack of bananas was untouched and
and fresh, plentiful. So, there's no
competition for that. The coffee line
was quite short. Uh the big story though
has really been in in Japan, right?
We're up 4%. This repricing is is the
way maybe to put it around the results
from the weekend. We'll unpack that
further. Um I would imagine volumes
there, which I haven't checked. Uh I'll
correct myself if I'm wrong on this is
probably are probably picking up
substantially. uh some of the big
gainers coming up on your screens very
shortly apart from the banks which are
trading lower on uh question mark here
on expectations the BOG might not be
able to move because of the change in uh
in the political uh scene there that's
still an open question of course but
certainly markets are moving along those
lines as well very quickly you have
defense you have tech stocks and of
course we talked about the banks will
coming up on your screens very shortly
too and the reaction piece from our
folks at Bloomberg economics talks about
maybe what the implications are as far
as the monetary policy implications are
concerned. Let me just go through this
um verbatim that the well not verbatim
par I'm going to paraphrase now that the
victory will tilt Japan's fiscal policy
more expansionary to borrow one of the
phrases that Taro Kimura used um she
would be in favor of more juice
for this economy for the Bank of Japan
it could also mean slightly slower pace
of rate interest rate hikes
>> yes sort of difficult to understand is
this sort of markets that are reacting
because Takuchi was a surprise result or
are they also reacting ing to to what
could be a shift back more in the
direction of abonomics and so how
sustained is this going to be as well
but let's bring in Nicholas Smith Japan
strategist at CLSA and and Nicholas
what's your view on this is this is this
more a knee-jerk reaction or is this
investors that really like the signs
around easy policy settings for instance
>> to speak um yeah I mean I think the um
the result was a surprise all the votes
were suggesting lawmakers were
supporting Koisuni uh and in the first
round. That's what happened in the
second round. 85 law maker law makers
switched their allegiance to uh Takichi
um which was very clearly the uh the
voice of the people. So if you look at
any polls, they were strongly in favor
of uh of Takiti. Now she has a
reputation of uh I mean she said last
year it would be stupid of the BOJ to to
hike rates and then we had a problem
with the cost of living crisis and some
of them were saying we'll cut
consumption tax and some of them were
saying well we'll just hand out 20,000
yen to everybody since we don't know um
we don't have the computer systems to
just send it to the people who need it.
And amazingly, what no one mentioned was
75% of inflation is food. And the food
prices are going up because of imported
food prices because of the weaker yen.
And so it seems very clear that if you
wanted to deal with this problem, and
remember inflation is above the rate of
uh wage growth, and wage growth is the
best that Japan's had since 1991. if you
want to deal with this, you allow the
the rates to go up. Now, it's still a
pretty doubbish situation with deeply
negative real rates. Uh and so, you
know, there are people out there who
say, um, oh, Japan can't handle the the
rise in rates. It's got a lot of debt.
And yet, we look at the numbers last
year and interest payments were 1.3% of
GDP, whereas they were 3.1% of of GDP in
the US. I think that people have got
their shoes on the wrong feet.
>> So David, here is that a way is that
your way of saying we are
underestimating the likelihood that the
BOJ can in fact proceed with that rate
hike this month.
>> I think that the rate hike will probably
go ahead. In fact, people have this
awful habit of taking what goes on in
the US and and copying and pasting it
into Japan. But look at what just
happened in the Fed in the most recent
meeting. Um the the pressure was from
Trump on uh on Jerome Pal to cut a lot
and he asserted his um his independence
by cutting less than um than was
expected. I think that in the very same
way uh UEA uh will will hike uh as
needed uh by say 25 basis points. I
think that um that the difference
between Japan and the US is you only get
to influence a central bank when you're
changing the uh the chair or the
governor. Uh the um Powell steps down in
uh in May, but has smack on two and a
half years still to run. You can't
influence him and he may well uh want to
assert his independence, which he has
under the Bank of Japan law of 1997.
Yeah, it's interesting you say about the
BOJ and you're still expecting that hike
at the upcoming meeting because swaps of
course are indicating that that we won't
see that happening at all. But we're
seeing bank stocks certainly reacting to
that this morning. They're under
pressure as you would expect given what
we're seeing in swaps pricing. Where do
you see the opportunities in in the
short to medium term then?
>> Well, Japan is going to have to
normalize its uh its rates. It's very
dangerous that it's got real rates this
far negative. So, I would look at the
bank um bank stocks and say, "Well,
great. We've got a a discount sale at
the local supermarket. Now's a chance to
pick up the things that we want to own
at a knockdown price. I don't think you
need to uh run for cover at the uh the
first crack of a twig. I think that this
is an opportunity."
>> Nick, final final thoughts from you.
What else we missing here?
>> Well, I think that she um she's is
talking in terms of uh of fiscal
spending. Typically, that tends to
benefit construction stocks in Japan.
There's a lot of talk of defense and of
course the defense related stocks have
done uh extremely well recently. She
wants to to talk about technology and
she needs to. So, semiconductors, AI,
they've been benefiting considerably.
You've seen Tokyo Electron and Advantes
and so on. And then she's been talking
about her cyber crime, which Japan
really needs to do something about with
the Asahi story of of last week. And
perhaps I shouldn't be mentioning
individual stocks there, but um that's
another area of of real importance to
the market.
>> Nicholas Smith, thank you so much, sir.
I know we made this, of course, very
last minute uh for very obvious reasons
given the market reaction there. Thank
you so much for taking the time, sir,
this Monday morning. Nicholas Smith,
Japan strategist at CLSA. Uh, still to
come here on shows, we'll take a closer
look at China's challenges in creating a
self-sufficient
chip ecosystem amidst US restrictions.
It's now a question mark, of course,
because some things may be on the table
right now that perhaps weren't uh as
recently as a few months back. We're
joined by the IDC coming through next.
This is woman.
[Music]
You're watching the China show. And if
there's a sector that's really stood out
in China over the past few weeks, it's
very much what we're seeing in the
semiconductor space. I mean, it's it's
really been a theme we've tracked over
this year. And it's that big story. How
is China going about catching up to the
US and what does that gap look like
between the the industry juggernauts
like Nvidia for instance and what we see
in China? Some of the names that have
been capturing our attention this year.
So Cambercon for instance has been one
of the standouts at least from a stock
perspective. It's been on an absolute
tear. It is an AI chip designer of
course much much smaller than what we
see with Nvidia but certainly it is one
of the more promising ones in the local
space. Manufacturers as well I mean we
talk a lot about SMIC. We talk a lot
about Hua Wong. These are the major
foundaries as well. Chip equipment. This
is an area where China has very much
been seen as a lagard. It doesn't have
access to the extreme ultraviolet
equipment that we see from ASML. But we
do see some advancements coming across
for names like SME for instance,
Shanghai micro electronics equipment,
OSAT, JSAT was one of the biggest that
we see in the world. And then also what
we're seeing in terms of in-house AI
chip efforts and that's been one of the
reasons we've seen BU on such a tear
over the past few weeks as well. It
comes down to their Kunlon efforts their
their in-house chip efforts and we see
the same from Alibaba what exactly
they're doing in this space. David.
>> Yeah, you know, I'm glad you ended it on
on those sort of household tech names in
China because I think for one, we do
have enough information at least up
until a few weeks ago. Then we started
to rethink what kind of stocks Bu and
Alibaba are now. Uh but the market has
also scrambled effectively for
information around the rest of the tech
space, right? And I think a very good
and I've taken some of those names that
Bill just pointed out, right? and just
showed you how analyst coverage has
increased really for many of these names
and how likely this will continue to
increase as we try again figure out and
have more information around these
companies right so uh compared to five
years ago just I'm not going to go
through each and each and every one but
SMIC had six analysts covering the stock
um as recently as 5 years ago and as you
can see that's jumped to 22 and similar
changes that we've seen uh for some of
the other names across that ecosystem so
As investors try and figure out what the
thesis is, we'll certainly more need
more quality information around what
these companies actually do and sort of
where the bottlenecks are and where the
opportunities lie as well.
Yeah, it's a really interesting sort of
signal of how that ecosystem is
developing. But at the same time, you
continue to see of course very
established dependencies and Huawei for
instance, uh this is a tear down that
we've seen, but has used advanced
components from Asia's largest tech
firms and at least some of its uh
leading ascend AI processes. That's its
AI chip. But as I said, a research firm
discovered those during a tear down,
highlighting its continued reliance that
we see on foreign hardware. So, let's
get more on this now with our Bloomberg
tech reporter, Gal Yuan. And and Gal,
great great insights of course into the
dependencies that Huawei have,
especially when you do have those
restrictions in place. But just talk us
through what was found out of that tech
insights uh that tech insights report.
>> Yeah, good morning Annabelle. That's
very interesting found actually uh in
the tear down of uh several uh Huawei's
accent 9C which is the most advanced AI
chip Huawei can make right right now
they found dice from TSMC which is a
Taiwanese chipmaker uh and also HBM
which is high bandwidth memory chips
made by South Korean companies like
Samsung and HK Hennix. So that means
Huawei's most advanced AI chips are
actually equipped with the foreignmade
components that is actually a very very
uh interesting development that we have
uh we didn't hear it before but for
Huawei I think it's a it's a it's I
don't think it's a good thing for Huawei
to use those kind of components but uh
at the time being with all this you know
you talk about the tech restrictions uh
the they don't see this you know all
homemade components foreseeable feasible
so that's the only reason that they have
to use uh those foreign made components
>> where are the biggest bottlenecks right
now do you think for for China and for
Huawei in particular is it on the HBM
side is it on the equipment side how's
it most affecting the business
>> uh there are many actually in terms of
chipm um first of all HPM is one of the
uh bottlenecks if if especially when
you're talking about AI and data centers
you need those chips to talk internally
very efficiently and also communicate
outside with other chips so the
interconnection is very important so
that's why the memory chip is is is
important uh and also from manufacturing
side there are b bunch of bottlenecks in
uh chipm machines, materials and also
chip design software. So the the
bottlenecks are basically everywhere. Uh
but don't make make mistake. China is
making progress. Huawei and SMA, they're
all making progress. Uh but the progress
is not not earth shaking for now as we
see. Uh so basically they are making
progressive progress to uh make homemade
uh components more uh in those supply
chains. But overall it's it's basically
still stuck in 7 nanometer DUV
technology which is generations behind
what TSMC is using and what TTMC is
supplying to their uh uh uh clients such
as Apple and Nvidia. So the the the gap
is still still pretty big.
>> Gianne, thank you so much. Uh our tech
reporter in Singapore for us. Let's
bring in Mario Morales, uh, group VP of
enabling tech and semiconductors at IDC
joining us right now. Mario, good
morning from the Asia Pacific. Thank you
for joining us. You might have heard
some of the conversations we just had
just now on that. I'm wondering if we
could start there. You know, as you
know, one area closes the gap with
another. You are bound to get gaps
anyway. Uh, markets are trying to figure
out where the gaps are closing quicker
than other places. What's your take of
you know just compare and contrast the
ecosystems for us and China?
>> Sure. I think when you look at both
industries and both countries I think
you you're going to find some strengths
in each one. I would say that the US
continues to lead in AI in compute and
even its ability to put some of these
things together because of the large
fabulous uh domains that we find in the
US. When you think about China, China is
the largest semicond industry as a
whole. And today about 25 to 30% of all
of the demand in China is being served
by the local design houses and suppliers
within within the supply chain. So the
strengths that we see moving forward is
that China over the past 5 to seven
years has continued to build a
tremendous amount of capacity
specifically in the mainstream and
mature nodes. And we think that as we
look at the end of this decade, they're
going to control about 30% of the total
capacity around the world. So any type
of design, whether it's a smartphone or
a a 5G infrastructure piece of equipment
or a PC, about seven 70% of all the
components that go into these systems is
primarily using mature and mainstream
technology. So even though we tend to
kind of gravitate very quickly to AI and
CPUs and high bandwidth memory, the
reality still is that a large amount of
the the different market segments that
consume silicon continue to use some of
these older technologies that now um
China is becoming a very strong player
in.
>> Yeah. So as as China increases its
capabilities in and and market share as
well of mature nodes, how does that then
also erode the the the power of names
like SKH Highix or Samsung and then
their ability to to reinvest in R&D in
return?
>> Well, I think when you look at the
memory space specifically, I you know,
you do have two big players coming out
of China. Uh each of these companies
control about 3 to 4% of the market
overall. So there's still quite a bit of
time before they can get to a position
where they're as competitive as SKX or
Micron or even Samsung. But they are
growing and the more the OEMs in China
continue to switch suppliers going from
a Samsung to one of these local
suppliers like CXMT or YMTC, then you're
going to see some of their market
position to continue to grow. These
companies are growing bits a lot faster.
They're investing very aggressively, but
they're going to need more time to catch
up from a process and technology
standpoint, but they're they are making
gains. And I think the more they're able
to scale with some of the Chinese OEMs,
the bigger they they have a potential to
to grow.
Chinese chip makers are really limited
at 7 nanometer capacity, but we are
seeing names like Huawei for instance
building clusters of AI chips instead.
And they're saying that as a result, you
you are able to get a lot of power and a
lot of technology out of those clusters
together. Pursuing that type of
architecture, how much does it then
overcome the hurdles from from lack of
access to chips from names like Nvidia?
I think when you look at the play here,
I think that necessity always drives
innovation. And even though Huawei still
doesn't have the same access that Nvidia
or AMD has in terms of process
technology, they are trying to find
unique ways of designing and building
systems. And I think we cannot
underestimate the fact that Huawei has
been building systems for decades in in
uh 5G infrastructure or 4G
infrastructure. And that knowhow has
continued to be something that they can
leverage. You know, some of the Chinese
companies, whether it's Huawei or Cap
Capriccom or Bitmain or Canon Creative,
these are all companies that are very
good at designing AS6 and very good at
designing SOC's. And now they're putting
their their assets to develop these AI
chips. And you're seeing some unique
partnerships within between some of
these companies and some of the cloud
service providers within China. And so I
think that what we cannot underestimate
is their ability to design. Now some of
these smaller companies like Cabricon
and Kanan Creative, they still have
access to other foundaries beyond the
Chinese foundaries. The only one that's
limited has been Huawei. But you can see
a resurgence already in Huawei just
based on the fact that they're beginning
to grow market share again both in the
equipment side of things but also even
in in smartphones. And that always
bodess well for the ability to for them
to continue to grow. And I think the
most important thing too is when you
think about AI, you're going to need a
tremendous amount of data to feed these
large language models. And a lot of the
data that they're leveraging is the data
that's being created within smartphones.
And so the smartphone, the smart home,
and you think about the automotive
areas, these are all markets that China
is leading in. and they're able to use
these as hubs to continue to grow the
data foundation that you need to to feed
and train these AI models. And so I
think every single day you'll see a
Huawei or anybody else that's in this
space continuing to develop their their
silicon based on all this data that
they're able to get access to.
>> Yeah. And we certainly are seeing the
result of that which is Huawei, as you
said, managing to increase its market
share domestically. I think one of the
trade-offs though with that architecture
they're following is that it's very
energy intensive. Maybe not such a big
burden in in China when you've got more
access to to cheaper electron uh
electricity essentially. But how does it
impact their ability to to take this
sort of technology abroad when you've
got the US and China that are competing
for the full stack they want in other
markets around the globe?
>> It does continue to increase the the
cost burden. Right. So when you think
about someone like Huawei, they're
already using uh technology that's
likely four generations if not more
behind the leaders in the space. And so
not only is there a cost adder to the
chip design itself, but now you have to
add the cost of power. But like you
said, having access to power in China is
not probably the concern for someone
like Huawei. But I think the cost
structure is something that they're
going to have to continue to address.
Now I do believe at some point in time
uh Smith will be able to gain and
develop their their their technology to
be able to go down below 7 nanometer but
still that cost burden will remain and
also the yield uh concerns too because
these products do not yield as good as
what you would do um if you were to
build them with uh with TSMC directly.
>> Yeah, that's that's right. Yeah, really
great point on the yield there to finish
off. That was Mario Morales, their group
VP of enabling technologies and
semiconductors at IDC. Thanks very much
for your time. And if you're a
subscriber and you want to rewatch that
interview, you can you can do it via
inter interactive TV function TV go. You
can also become part of the conversation
by sending us instant messages. So do
check it out at TV go. We'll have plenty
more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Taking a look at how Vietnamese markets
are coming online this morning. A bit of
strength. Uh we just had the GDP figures
as well at the top of the hour, but
essentially uh third quarter GDP rose
more than estimated. So you can see
there 8.23%.
Uh bit of strength as well, particularly
what we saw in the services sector of
the economy. But that is it there for
the GDP CPI as well rising 3.27%
again ahead of what estimates were.
>> Yeah, I'm surprised with the two
decimals of precision there. Uh when you
look at the economic numbers 8.23%
uh not a tick lower or or higher. Uh
very quickly let's um have a look at the
oh in fact you know what just a second.
So we're looking at the September
consumer prices coming in at 3.38%. And
I think there was a correction that came
through here just just in the last few
minutes or so um out of our uh
colleagues there. Okay. Uh gold's doing
well and before you know it, we're in
fact, you know, at this point we're a
good one or two sessions away from
taking out 4,000 gold stocks trading to
the upside on the back of that.
[Music]
If we face something against national
interest, I believe it's important to
clearly express our position within the
framework of the Japan and US agreement.
At this point, I have no intention of
overturning any agreement made so far.
That was Japan's new Liberal Democratic
Party leader, Sane Takayichi, on the US
trade deal. And it's 11:29 a.m. in
Tokyo. Japanese markets just about to go
on their lunch break, but has been a
very strong start to the session. Dave.
>> Yeah, I mean 60% heavier volumes than
usual there as we go into the lunch
break given, of course, everything else
that's been u taking place there over
the weekend. It's coming up very shortly
as we just wrap up. 15 seconds to the
break. There we go. There we go. So,
we're looking at quite a substantial
amount of interest coming in, a
substantial amount of repricing that's
taking place. Now, how long the sort of
dynamic lasts is it obviously yet to be
seen stating the obvious, but I mean
there are conversations around are we
still underestimating the fact that the
BOJ will probably go ahead and hike
interest rates. But again, on that very
note, have a look at some of the big
sectors that have traded and sort of
your top three winners so far and the
biggest loser unexpectedly has been the
banks on the back of the repricing,
which I'll get to in a moment. But of
course, if it's if it is a story of
um lower rates for slightly longer,
let's put it that way, then you get of
course a bump up in real estate. If it's
fiscal stimulus, then of course you get
a lot of the big heavyweights there
trading on your screens uh to the
upside. But make no doubt, it's really
been a good day to be long these
markets, right? Just on that very note
on, you know, will the BOJ
manage to hike interest rates this
month? And I think when you look at the
pricing around the BOJ's October 30th
meeting, so we were trading at about,
let's call it a 70% probability of a
interest rate hike at the end of the
month and that's been pulled down to
about 20% as I speak. 23% to be more
specific. So it's about 1 in4 which I
think are still good odds. But any case,
uh, yeah, lots to talk about given the
change there that we've seen over the
weekend. Bill,
>> yeah, that's right. Let's bring in
Margarita Estz Abbe, associate professor
of political science at Sierra Cruz
University. Margarita, thanks so much
for joining us and staying up late, but
I do want to start with with really it
was a surprise. Taki was not seen as as
necessarily the front runner in this,
but but what do you think tipped the
balance in her favor eventually?
>> So, I think just many of the forecasters
were uh wrong. I think what motivated
the LDP to go for a Takahichi because
many of the LDP members, the politicians
actually think that she's too far right.
Uh however
um in July in the lower house elections
um the LDP has lost um sort of votes to
uh to a couple of conservative parties
especially to the far right sort of
populist party Santo. So I think there
was a hope that Takahichi, the most
far-right candidate in the leadership
race, might be able to contain the
further rise of Sansto
>> Margarita David here. So what does that
then mean in terms of the likely
coalitions we will see? So this is this
is difficult because uh so Sansto is
doesn't have a big presence in the the
upper uh the lower house because they
want big in the the upper house. So so
now um so Taki probably has um
some options maybe somehumin.
So now the electoral sort of space is
just very crowded with with sort of
multiple conservative parties. So uh
Takayichi will just look towards sort of
Kokaming or Ishing to negotiate. Now we
wouldn't know whether one of them would
agree to um to join the coalition
government or whether they would just
agree to cooperate on you know just sign
some sort of policy agreements. So we
are yet to see. But one problem here is
that the the longtime uh coalition
partner of the LDP come
um they don't really like someone like
Takayichi but they have put up with Abbe
so uh they may not leave leave the
coalition um but but it will be just
interesting to see uh what happens what
kind of arrangement Takayichi will um
will form with either Ishin or Kokumin
>> and how does that also constrain her her
ability on the policy front and and what
are you expecting in particular given
she was someone who promised to to
unleash a lot of spending.
>> Yes. So this uh so Ishin is not into so
I guess so this is um so some spending I
think everyone would agree to it um
because one of the reasons why the LDP
lost is the the Japanese ordinary
working families are really hurting um
you know partly because of economics
that has just lowered um the the
Japanese uh yen's value so people are
suffering from the rising um sort of
prices So, so they will I think just
most of the the the conservative parties
might just agree on just going for some
targeted tax cuts um and some um sort of
investments um to help um small
businesses. So um so I think tax cuts
are just more likely just tax cuts that
are targeted at the at the middle sort
of low low and middle income groups. KTO
can live with that and and so can Ishin
and cook on that.
>> Margarita the what about gender gender
related issues gender equality for
example or are we overthinking that?
>> Yes. So this is really interesting that
uh so this is a historic moment right um
so uh so Takayichi is the first she's
going to be the first female sort of
prime minister of Japan uh but she's
just full of contradictions because she
is again like Abbe she is a nationalist
arch conservative
um and she is just someone who believes
that the family is more important than
than the individual for for the nation
And so although she promises policies
that would just help women balance work
and work and family, she nonetheless is
not a feminist. And so for instance in
Japan, so women who get married, they
cannot maintain their maiden names um
because the current law is that everyone
in the same family have to just have the
same family name. So uh Takayichi just
stands very firmly on things like this.
And another very interesting sort of
symbolic thing about the Japanese uh
gender uh equality is whether the
current emperor's daughter Princess Aiko
will be able to succeed her father or
not. And and and here too Takayichi has
been just quite vocal and this is
interesting. So she says that uh yes she
supports um changing the law so that
princess Aiko can be an empress but she
nonetheless says that the Japanese
patriarchal family is very important.
Hence that even though she supports
Princess Aiko to be an empress that her
children should not be allowed to future
sort of succession. So, so, so she is
the first sort of female leader of
Japan, but nonetheless, she just seems
to be into this maintaining highly
patriarchal Japanese family system, both
at the imperial household level and and
at the level of just ordinary Japanese
citizens.
>> Yeah, certainly not not a a likely
leader to to move forward that gender
equality conversation in Japan. What
about the the conversation around
anti-forigner sentiment and immigration
as well?
>> Yeah. So, this is this is another
interesting issue that um so Takichi is
just very much in the same mold as
Shinszo Abbe. Um and so Shinszo AB just
used to use China and Korea as his punch
bags. So in her ideal world, Takai might
just want to do that. But the the whole
political situation is now different. So
uh sort of facing uh sort of Trump's
tariffs
um Takayichi won't be able to alienate
Korea nor China. And the last thing she
wants is economic tensions with its
economic um its Asian neighbors. So So
then the new scapegoat has been the
foreigners who are in Japan. And again
this has been kind of started by the
Sansetto the farright sort of populist
party and and LDP has fully embraced
this. So uh so we should expect to see
some kind of legal changes to uh
well they have to do something against
um foreigners like restricting
making it more difficult for uh for
foreigners to invest in uh properties in
Japan. So we can just expect something
like that to happen but it's just going
to be extremely negative for Japan if
they did that.
And well, can I just follow up on that
then? What it means for foreign policy
directly with with China, with Beijing,
and also with Washington? And do do you
think this puts Japan more likely closer
to the orbit of of of Beijing or is it
status quo and the US remains
>> that? I think it would be the status
quo. I think here Japan doesn't have
much card to play. Uh so Japan is just
on a kind of a tight place where the US
will the US is demanding that Japan just
increase its defense budget. They
expecting President Trump ask for a
further increase in in in defense
budget. So this is not going to just
look good in the eyes of Beijing. But
the Japanese government really just
cannot afford to uh to have any economic
tensions with China. that would be
disastrous for the Japanese economy.
>> Uh we're just getting some commentary as
well. Margarita, this is from local
media in in Japan saying that Takayichi
is eyeing a record number of women in
cabinet and also to LDP postings as
well. But we also had other local media
talking about how how Suzuki Shiniki
Suzuki uh could be tapped for the number
two post. Taro Assasso is someone the
former prime minister who also could be
given the post of party vice president.
Are there any any specific appointments
that you're watching out for?
>> Uh no I would just just look at sort of
women which kind of women she's
appointing but the most important thing
is um who are you know which parties are
going to be the coalition partners. Um,
and as far as her new administration
goes, it's really the the AB version
too, you know, we can just see this in
the fact that she's just really relying
on TTO Asso and Suzuki, uh, who is a
brother-in-law of Aso. So, we can kind
of see that she's really just relying on
the same kind of people that Abbe relied
on.
>> Margarita, thank you so much for taking
the time. Margarita Estes Abbe their
associate professor of political science
at Syracuse University writes uh just
ahead uh how a wall of western sanctions
is helping revive this age-old system of
barter it's bouncing back uh including
the trading of Chinese cars for Iranian
medals. The details in that story is
just ahead.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. This unprecedented wave of Western
sanctions has really fragmented the
global trading system and has helped
revive this age-old system
of barter or bartering. Now, in one
case, you have Chinese cars now being
traded maybe directly for Iranian
metals. Let's bring in our Asia
transport reporter Linda Louu uh who has
more details on this. Uh last time I
think I heard about this concept was way
back in school and the the depiction on
textbooks was really closer to cavemen
more than uh modern industry. Linda, how
does this current system work involving
Chinese cars for metals from Iran?
>> Yeah, this is a really fascinating from
our colleagues here. Um what's happened
is essentially around six or seven years
ago uh the US really stepped up uh
sanctions against Iran and that's
actually caused quite a big headache for
Cherry uh because Iran was one of its
major international markets and the
restrictions meant that Cherry was
having big difficulties receiving
payments for its car exports.
So, um, they've set up this, well, we,
our reporting showed that a deal was set
up, uh, essentially to get Cherry to
sell it, uh, parts and technology to a
third party company, which then would
export these, uh, these car parts and,
um, technology and semi-nockdown kits to
Iran. And in Iran they would be
assembled locally and sold under a
different brand. Now another cog in the
system is Tongling Non-Ferris Metals
Group. This is one of China's largest
metals companies. And what happens is
then Iran would send an equivalent value
of metals such as copper and zinc to
Tonging and China where it would then
broker distribution among other
companies in China.
What we report in the story as well is
that that barter trade with Iran began
about six or seven years ago according
to sources and that is a period of
course when when US sanctions against
Iran really ramped up. So how does that
complicate the story overall and for
Cherry and Cherry in particular?
>> Yeah. So I think we have to make it
clear that although currently uh neither
Cherry or Tony are in breach of US
sanctions, there's always going to be
the risks that Washington could target
these companies and investigate them for
potential breaches in sanctions just
like it did uh against Huawei. And
before Western banks actually had
concerns over Cher's disclosures uh
during the IPO process, Cherry just went
public in Hong Kong last month and our
reporting showed that JP Morgan actually
withdrew from this uh listing uh due to
concerns over these kinds of um
disclosures uh with its trade in
sanctioned countries. So in the end we
only saw Chinese banks working on this
deal.
Okay, Linda, just to abruptly change the
page here, another story that well, you
you co wrote and I want to get more
details on this. So, if if you wanted a
custom
your vehicle customized, for example,
that you you would typically be turning
to, you know, premium brands, Porsche,
Rolls-Royce, but Xiaomi is now launching
this service that enables their, you
know, their their their their car buyers
to be able to do so. What do we know
about this?
Yeah, Xiaomi's founder, Lein, launched a
service at an event last month. He was
really proud and said that, you know, a
lot of these uh services, they offering
customization such as 24 karat gold and
ceramic uh hood badges as well as paint
jobs that take 50 hours to apply and uh
polish by hand. Um, Lejun boasted, you
know, that these kinds of customization
could rival that of Porsche and
Rolls-Royce. And that just underlines an
ambition for Xiaomi to come after these
ultra premium uh luxury uh customers
that these brands are known to have
really strong um market share in. So
Xiaomi is probably more known as a mass
market brand, but with the launch of
this service, it really shows they're
trying to go premium and charge a lot
more for its services and hopefully its
cars in the future.
>> Yeah, it's interesting that sort of
premiumization play because it's the
exact same playbook that Xiaomi's used
with its smartphones to to go up uh the
ladder as well. So now they're applying
it to EVs and and smartphones has been
successful. How successful do you see it
being for the luxury car space?
So that's going to be some metrics we're
going to watch over very carefully. Uh
Leen has set out an initial goal to I
think sell about 40 uh cars each month
uh for this customization program. And
for um customers, you know, to be able
to sign on, they have to commit to
10,000
uh I think 10 to 100,000 yen worth of
products. So, it's going to be
interesting to see how much uh the
takeup is going to be and um and see if
this service is going to pay off with
Xiaomi in the future.
That was our Bloomberg Asia transport
reporter Linder Lou joining us this
morning in Hong Kong. And some of the
other big corporate stories that we're
tracking, Honghai has reported an 11%
growth in quarterly sales, signaling
healthy demand for AI infrastructure.
revenue met analyst expectations
totaling around $68 billion in the third
quarter. At Honghai, also known as
Foxcon, says it expects server revenue
to more than double in the September
quarter, while its consumer electronics
business remains stagnant.
Bloomberg has learned that Stellantis is
planning to invest about $10 billion in
the US as part of a bid to refocus on
this pivotal market. Sources say the car
maker may announce around $5 billion in
fresh investment in the coming weeks on
top of a similar announce amount rather
announced early this year. The funding
could be redirected or directed rather
toward plants in the states including
Illinois and Michigan.
Tata Capital's $1.7 billion IPO has
attracted anchor investors including
funds managed by Morgan Stanley, Goldman
Sachs and Namura along with domestic
mutual funds and insurers. The company
allocated $523 million worth of shares
to these investors ahead of a public
subscription beginning on Monday. The
listing is set to be India's largest so
far this year. We'll have plenty more
ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Now to some of the top political stories
we're tracking today. And President
Trump is urging Israel and Hamas to
reach a settlement to end the 2-year war
in Gaza. Mediated talks begin Monday in
Egypt with US envoy Steve Wickoff and
Jared Kushner attending. The first test
of progress will be whether Hamas
releases its remaining hostages in
exchange for Israel freeing Palestinian
prisoners. US officials say a potential
deal is the closest it's been in a very
long time.
The first piece of it which was very
clear from the letter and Hamas's
response is they have agreed to the
president's hostage release framework
and what needs to happen now and they
acknowledge in the letter and their
response is there now needs to be
meetings which are occurring even as I
speak to you now and hopefully will be
finalized very quickly on the logistics
of that what that means is you know who
goes in to get them is the Red Cross you
know when do they show up etc you know
what place are they going to be and the
conditions have to be created for that
to happen you know you can't have bombs
going off and fighting going on in the
middle of this exchange.
>> Federal worker unions are asking a US
judge to block the Trump administration
from carrying out mass firings during
the government shutdown. They're seeking
a temporary order to stop agencies from
using the funding lapse as grounds for
layoffs known as reductions in force.
The lawsuit says the Office of
Management and Budget is illegally
pushing agencies to use the shutdown as
a springboard for job cuts.
>> This is a Schumer shutdown. Chuck
Schumer instigated this uh at the behest
of a bunch of far-left liberal interest
groups. Um but there are Democrats who
are reaching out to Republicans having
conversations about how we might be able
to get the government opened up again.
So hopefully the reasonable Democrats
will prevail.
>> All right, before we wrap up the show,
just a look at two sectors within the
Hong Kong markets. One is we're looking
at semis Goldman hiking their price
targets for companies on your screens.
again is AI ecosystem boost. It's not
really playing out consistently across
both. That's perhaps down to the fact
that we are also looking at a markets
are shut on the mainland. Uh today uh
we're looking at casinos as well. So we
were looking at the possibility that
this might have to be purely or at least
mostly a profit taking uh exercise. But
city is being down pointed to city and
this response rate that dropped on the
survey among premium
um um premium mass market customers was
down and markets are perhaps taking that
as perhaps that also meaning there's
less premium mass market customers. Um
we're looking at Japan very quickly. Uh
we are in the lunch break. We are
looking at futures right now and
certainly trading at one point above
48,000 and certainly much closer to the
sun uh than we were uh on Friday. and
Yen is of course on the weaker side of
things down against just about
everything today. Um but yeah, okay,
that's a very strange pair uh at the
bottom of the screens, but anyway, yes,
it is weaker against all of its peers
this Monday.
[Music]